---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-05-13T09:42:06.675Z'
dateModified: '2016-05-13T09:42:05.580Z'
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
title: ''
author: []
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-05-13-d22e6e4f-33b3-4d44-854b-3d97c05ddca5.md
url: d22e6e4f-33b3-4d44-854b-3d97c05ddca5/index.html
_type: Article

---
_**Ming Pao's Executive Chief Editor Sacked: Concerns about Censorship and Press Freedom Rise**_

Ming Pao Daily's Editor-In-Chief Chong Tien-siong fired Keung 
Kwok-yuen, Executive Chief Editor, late last night claiming that the 
decision was made to "reduce resources". Ming Pao Staff Association 
(MPSA) issued a statement on its Facebook page expressing their anger, 
demanding the management and Chong to explain the decision with all 
staff.

Ming Pao Staff Association statement

Comments on social media questioning if Chong's decision was 
political driven. Press freedom and self-censorship in Hong Kong is, 
once again, under the spotlight.

There were a lot of criticisms of the appointment of Chong Tien-siong
back in 2014\. Chong took over from Kevin Lau Chun-to, who was [attacked][0]
in February 2014\. Many concerned that Chong's pro-China stance can pose
threat to the newspaper's traditionally unbiased reporting style and 
editorial independence.

As the storm created by International Consortium of Investigative 
Journalists' (ICIJ) Panama Papers continues to gain strength, there are 
rumours suggesting that Lau's attack was related to Panama Papers, as it
is believed that Kevin Lau was actively involved in the project.

Today's Ming Pao Daily front page story, coincidentally, is a feature
on Panama Papers focusing on tycoons and political figures in Hong 
Kong, including Jackie Chan, Henry Tang Ying-yen, Lau Wong-fat and Lau 
Ming-wai. Despite the fact that some of these individuals hold British 
or Australian passports, they pledge loyalty to China and often publicly
criticise Hongkongers for not being "patriotic to China".

There are also rumours suggesting that Keung Kwok-yuen's exit was due to his refusal to pull the Panama Papers front page story.

Last year, Chong replaced the front page story, an exclusive 4/June 
Tiananmen massacre feature revealing eye-witnesses' testimonies, with a 
story on Alibaba's Jack Ma. Even though MPSA requested Chong to give 
detail explanation on his decision, which was made in late evening, 
Chong only said that as the Editor in Chief, he has the power and 
responsibility to make such change.

[0]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knife_attack_on_Kevin_Lau