---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-05-13T09:26:16.816Z'
dateModified: '2016-05-13T09:25:35.827Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
starred: false
sourcePath: _posts/2016-05-13-2b4d2242-eb9c-4292-9c7a-799a94dc4b31.md
url: 2b4d2242-eb9c-4292-9c7a-799a94dc4b31/index.html
_type: Article

---
**_New Music Video Goes Viral -- Injecting Music into Politics_**

A young and independent duet released its [music video][0] around 1am on 27/April through its [Facebook page][1]
and YouTube account. In less than 24 hours, the music video received 
over 1,500 Likes (and a couple hundreds of "Reactions") on Facebook, it 
was also shared over 1,700 times on the social media platform -- 
impressive result to an independent, and frankly unknown, local Hong 
Kong duet.

_Official Music Video_

Hong Kong Duet SanSang Busking's Cantonese song goes viral

Cantopop was in its golden era back in the 70s and 80s, when Hong 
Kong Cantopop stars were influential in many Asian countries, for 
example, Anita Mui Yim-fong, Leslie Cheung Kwok-wing and Alan Tam 
Wing-lun were the leading Cantopop signers with significant fan base in 
Japan. It was also a time when people around the world were interested 
in learning Cantonese. Sadly, Cantopop is no longer as influential in 
the global music industry as it once was.

Hongkongers had always been politically apathetic. However, in the 
recent few years, things seem to have changed. The newly released song 
is, perhaps not surprisingly, related to politics. Entitled ["I Have No Identity in This Election"][2]
(direct translation), the song aims at raising public awareness of the 
importance of their votes and encouraging those who have not registered 
as voters to register before the 2/May registration deadline.

SanSang Busking claimed that they are not a "boy band" but merely two good friends who are passionate about music. The duet's [YouTube Channel][3] featured a number of pop songs the duet have covered over the past two years.

"We did everything ourselves, it is not just 'low budget' but a 'no 
budget' production," Yat Sang (日新), vocalist of SanSang Busking, said in
laughter. The idea of the video, however, came from SanSang Busking's 
friend, online musician 762@WonderGarl who wrote the music and the lyric
for this overnight hit.

Directed, filmed and edited by 762@WonderGarl, the music video is 
about the lead actor (played by activist and Civic Passion member Alvin 
Cheng Kam-mun) who is inspired by the lead actress (played by Civic 
Passion member Bonix Chung Yuen-wun) to take part in an election 
campaign.

The music video is in "reverse chronological order" and starts with 
Chung's character slapping Cheng's character because he was not a 
registered voter. It then explained that Cheng's character was inspired 
by Chung's character to start taking part in an election campaign. The 
video later on revealed that Cheng's character had been keeping the fact
that he was not a registered voter as a secret, which was found out by 
Chung's character -- hence the opening scene.

When recalling the filming of the music video, Bonix Chung Yuen-wun 
said that the weather was the most memorable part, "the shower just came
and went as we needed it, although we had to get change a few times 
throughout the filming." Completed in a very short period of time, the 
execution of the music video as well as the acting have gained the 
applause of many netizens. "One funny thing is, I slapped Alvin around a
dozen times to get the perfect shot," Chung grinned.

Bonix Chung Yuen-wun slapped Alvin Cheng Kam-mun for not being a voter in the music video

"762@WonderGarl, with whom we play music together, invited us to join
this project, and we said yes because we share his view that it is 
important to get more Hongkongers to register as voters for the upcoming
Legislative Council election. We spent roughly a week to record the 
song and its arrangement," said Yat Sang.

"I had the first line about two weeks ago, and finished the whole 
song in just under three days," said 762@WonderGarl. "I spent a day 
checking out filming sites, shot all the scenes in one day, and spent 
another day to edit the video."

The professionally filmed and produced music video was praised by 
many netizens. "Although none of us in the production team (seven in 
total including SanSang Busking and 762@WonderGarl) got paid, it is 
worthwhile," 762@WonderGarl said. "We were quite lucky, as if the 
weather was very cooperative. When we needed rain, it showered; but when
we needed it to stop, it stopped. However, because Bonix and Alvin are 
both amateurs, there were quite a lot of outtakes."

"Civic Passion has been actively promoting various pop culture 
projects, including comic books, since its establishment, because we 
want to share our anti-communism ideology with the wider public via 
means that are easier for people to digest. By enriching Hong Kong's 
culture and injecting new elements into it, we aim to achieve the goal 
of nation-building in Hong Kong," said Alvin Cheng Kam-mun. "This music 
video is the first one our members ever took part in, a genuinely new 
and interesting initiative. However, this initiative is not just about 
politics, but also about promoting creativity and reminding Hongkongers 
that there are talented people in our homeland and we should be proud of
our culture and roots."

When asked what they hope to achieve from this music video, SanSang 
Busking, 762@WonderGarl, Bonix Chung and Alvin Cheng gave an identical 
answer: get more people to register as voters and cast their votes in 
the upcoming election.

"Grasp the opportunity, register to vote" -- still frame from the music video

The music video ended with a still frame saying "Grasp the 
opportunity, register to vote" and Chung asking in front of the camera 
"are you a registered voter?"

Although the government of Hong Kong SAR often blames the public for 
"politicalising" issues (even though the nature of these issues is 
fundamentally political), "politicalising" Cantopop and other creative 
industries may help revive them.

The overnight hit's music sheet for guitar players



[0]: https://www.facebook.com/sansangbusking/videos/1707271069545690/
[1]: https://www.facebook.com/sansangbusking/
[2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GZL0HFzA7X0
[3]: https://www.youtube.com/user/sansangbusking